---
title: appsettings.config
---

:::tip
For Umbraco v.9 all configuration lives in the appsettings.config file.
:::

The majority of these settings will have default values that do not need to be changed.

```json title="appsettings.json"
{
    "uSync": {
        "Settings": {
            "RootFolder": "uSync/v9/",
            "DefaultSet": "Default",
            "ImportAtStartup": "None",
            "ExportAtStartup": "None",
            "ExportOnSave": "All",
            "UiEnabledGroups": "All",
            "ReportDebug": false,
            "AddOnPing": true,
            "FailOnMissingParent": false,
            "CacheFolderKeys": true,
            "ShowVersionCheckWarning": true,
            "CustomMappings": {},
            "EnableHistory": true
        },
        "Sets": {
            "Default": {
                "Enabled": true,
                "HandlerGroups": [],
                "DisabledHandlers": [],
                "HandlerDefaults": {
                    "Enabled": true,
                    "Actions": [],
                    "UseFlatStructure": true,
                    "GuidNames": false,
                    "FailOnMissingParent": false,
                    "Group": "",
                    "Settings": {}
                },
                "Handlers": {}
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## uSync:Settings

Setting | Values | Default | Note
--------|--------|------ |---
RootFolder | Path to folder | "uSync/v9" |  Location in which uSync will save and read the exported files.
Default Set | Default | Default | Name of the handler set to use by default.
ImportAtStartup | Group | None | Handler groups used when importing items at startup.
ExportAtStartup | Group | None | Handler groups used when exporting items at startup.
ExportOnSave | Group | All | Handler groups whose items will be exported when changes are saved in Umbraco.
UiEnabledGroups | Group | All  | Handler groups that show in the uSync dashboard.
ReportDebug | True/false | False | Create a report while producing an export (debugging only).
AddOnPing | True/false | True | Ping the jumoo.co.uk website to check for addons and updates.
FailOnMissingParent | True/False | False | Should an import fail if the parent of an item is missing.
CacheFolderKeys | True/false | False | use a cache for the names and keys of folders during import, this increases import speeds.
ShowVersionCheckWarning | True/false | True | Display the warning box if the current import is from an older version of uSync.
CustomMappings | {} | {} | Custom item mappings for 3rd party or custom property editors.
EnableHistory | True/false | True | Enable viewing the import and export history in the uSync dashboard.

## uSync:Sets

Setting | Values | Default | Note
--------|--------|---------|-----
Enabled | True/false | True | Turn on the handler set.
HandlerGroups | List of groups | [] | List of handler groups to include in this set.
DisabledHandlers | List of handlers | [] | List of handlers to disable for this set.

## uSync:Sets:HandlerDefaults
Default settings for the handler, these values can be overridden for individual handlers.

Setting | Values | Default | Note
--------|--------|---------|-----
Enabled | True/false | True | Enable or disable the handler.
Actions | List of actions | [] | List of actions for which the handler is valid.
UseFlatStructure | True/false | True | Use a flat file structure for the file produced by the handler. 
GuidNames | True/false | False | Should uSync use the guid of an item as its file name. This ensures there are no clashes in names, but makes it harder to manually read what settings are in a folder.
FailOnMissingParent | True/false | False | Should an import fail if the parent of an item is missing.
Group | "" | "" | Override the group used for a handler. 
Settings | {} | {} | Specific settings for each handler, this will override the defaults.

For Handler Settings, see the [Handler Docs](../handlers).

