---
title: Dependencies
--- 

Whenever uSync.Complete attempts to push, pull or export items from an Umbraco site, it will perform a set of dependency checks against the items to be used. It does this to see what else is needed to make an item exist on another Umbraco site. 

For a content item these dependencies might include: 

- Media used in the content item,
- The doctype used to create the content item,
- The datatypes within the doctype, 
- The template used for the content item,
- Any culture and host name settings for the content item,
- Any public access security settings associated with the item.

In order to calculate these dependencies uSync.Complete will consult a list of dependency checkers to see what dependencies are needed for an item. 

## uSyncDependency
To include a dependency checker you need to write a class that implements the uSyncDependency interface.

```cs
public interface ISyncDependencyChecker<TObject> : ISyncDependencyItem
{
    IEnumerable<uSyncDependency> GetDependencies(TObject item, DependencyFlags flags);
}
```    

### GetDependencies
The GetDependencies method must return a list of dependencies for a given item. __At the very least this should include the item passed__

As an example the dependency checker for language items in Umbraco looks like this:

```cs
public class LanguageChecker : ISyncDependencyChecker<ILanguage>
{
    public UmbracoObjectTypes ObjectType => UmbracoObjectTypes.Language;

    public IEnumerable<uSyncDependency> GetDependencies(ILanguage item, DependencyFlags flags)
    {
        if (item == null) return Enumerable.Empty<uSyncDependency>();

        return new uSyncDependency
        {
            Name = item.CultureName,
            Udi = item.GetUdi(),
            Order = DependencyOrders.Languages,
            Flags = DependencyFlags.None,
            Level = 0
        }.AsEnumerableOfOne();
    }

}
```
_Any GetDependencies method will be called for all items of TObject that uSync encounters_

### DependencyFlags
Whenever the GetDependencies method is called a set of DependencyFlags will be passed, these 
flags can be used to alter what is included as part of any sync. 

```cs
public enum DependencyFlags
{
    None = 0,
    IncludeChildren = 2,
    IncludeAncestors = 4,
    IncludeDependencies = 8,
    IncludeViews = 16,
    IncludeMedia = 32,
    IncludeLinked = 64,
    IncludeMediaFiles = 128,
    IncludeConfig = 256,
    AdjacentOnly = 512,
    RootSync = 1024,
    IncludeContents = 2048
}
```

The most common flags are:

Flag | Note
----|----
IncludeChildren | Include any children of this item in the sync.
IncludeAncestors | Include the parents of this item in the sync.
IncludeDependencies | Include any settings needed for this item (e.g doctypes, datatypes, etc).
IncludeViews | Include any template/files needed for an item.
IncludeMedia | Include any media linked to within an item.
IncludeLinked | Include any linked items (e.g content linked via a content picker).
AdjacentOnly | Include only the direct descendants/parents of this item.

The other flags are used, but usually don't have a baring on how a dependency checker performs (e.g includeMediaFiles is used later on in the exporter process to say if the resulting sync pack should include the physical media for an item).






