---
title: Security 
---

[uSync.Publisher](../introduction/publisher) is sending your content and media between Umbraco instances, and as such security and integrity of the messages been sent is paramount. 

uSync.Publisher signs all communications with a [HMAC authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC) key using the AppId and AppKey settings from the `uSync.Publish.Config` file. Alongside this you should include some basic security configuration to secure your sites. 

## Use Https
While uSync.Publisher doesn't force HTTPS communication between Umbraco instances it is strongly recommended that you do use HTTPs protocols when setting up server addresses.

## Use AppId/AppKey Values
When uSync.Publisher first runs it will generate a AppId and AppKey value for the config, it is recommended you then use this value to communicate between servers (making sure all servers have the same config). **Do not use blank or short AppId/AppKey values.**

:::tip
You can if you choose have different AppId/AppKey pairs for each configured server, while this is a slightly more complex configuration it does allow you to have greater control of what can send where.
:::

## Secure the Publisher Route
All publish/pull requests in uSync publisher go via the `umbraco/uSyncReceive` route. This route can be secured in the main `web.config` of your site. For example, the config below could be used to secure the route by IP address (the IP Addresses would be of the server not the end-user).

```xml title="/web.config"
<location path="umbraco/uSyncReceive">
 <system.webServer>
  <security>
   <ipSecurity allowUnlisted="false">
    <add allowed="true" ipAddress="192.168.0.1"  subnetMask="255.255.255.0"/>
    <add allowed="true" ipAddress="127.0.0.1" subnetMask="255.255.255.0"/>
   </ipSecurity>
  </security>
 </system.webServer>
</location>
```