---
title: Value Mappers
---

Value Mappers control the mapping of content property values in and out of Umbraco.

## Mapping
For most properties we don't need to map values but occasionally a value might contain an internal ID or something else that needs to be turned into something more generic.

## Dependency
A far more common requirement is to get a list of dependencies for a property. Dependencies are used by uSync.Exporter and uSync.Publisher when calculating what additional items to include for syncing content.

## ISyncMapper
All value mappers need to implement the ISyncMapper interface.


    public interface ISyncMapper
    {
        string Name { get; }
        string[] Editors {get;}

        bool IsMapper(PropertyType propertyType);

        string GetExportValue(object value, string editorAlias);
        string GetImportValue(string value, string editorAlias);

        IEnumerable<uSyncDependency> GetDependencies(
            object value, 
            string editorAlias, 
            DependencyFlags flags);
    }

Value |	Note
------|------
Name  |	Name for the Mapper, will appear in logs to aid debugging.
Editors | Collection of EditorAliases for the DataTypes that the mapper handles.
IsMapper | Confirms that this mapper will map the propertyType supplied.

## SyncValueMapperBase
To aid with ValueMapper implementation, you should use the [SyncValueMapperBase](https://github.com/KevinJump/uSync/blob/v8/8.2/uSync8.ContentEdition/Mapping/SyncValueMapperBase.cs) class from the uSync.ContentMapper assembly. This base class handles some of the repetitive elements and has helpers for dependency checks.

## Examples
See the [uSync Mappers Source](https://github.com/KevinJump/uSync/tree/v8/8.2/uSync8.ContentEdition/Mapping) for examples of how mappers can be implemented.