---
title: Publisher config
---
# uSync.Publisher Config

for uSync 9 the majority of the uSync publisher config now lives in the Database, and can be synced between your servers via the dashboard.

## AppId/AppKey

For your servers to communicate securely they will need to have a shared AppId and AppKey, these values have to be placed in the `appsettings.json` file on each server. 

:::tip
When you first open up the uSync.Publisher dashboard, uSync will prompt you to create an AppId and AppKey. you can cut and paste the JSON from that dialog box directly into your appsettings.json file.
:::

```json
{
  "uSync": {
    "Publisher": {
      "Settings": {
        "IncomingEnabled": true,
        "AppId": "****************",
        "AppKey": "****************"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
## appsettings.json config File

While most settings are now stored in the DB, there are a few settings you can control per server via the `appsettings.json` file:

```json
{
  "uSync": {
    "Publisher": {
      "Settings": {
        "IncomingEnabled": true,
        "OutgoingEnabled": true, 
        "AppId": "****************",
        "AppKey": "****************",
        "Publisher": "Realtime",
        "CleanReports": true,
        "PageSize": 50,
        "AdditionalFolders": "",
        "SystemFolders" : "",
        "SystemExclusions" : "",
        "FileReplacements" : ""
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Property | Value | Note
---------|-------|-------
incomingEnabled | true/false | Turns this server on/off for incoming requests. With this setting off the server cannot be published to or pulled from.
outgoingEnabled | true/false | Enables/disables this server sending publish requests. With this setting off, you will not see the publish/pull options in Umbraco.
Server | string | Name of the server (not currently used).
AppId | string | Application ID used alongside AppKey to sign and check any communication between instances.
AppKey | string | Key used to sign communications. 
CleanReports | true/false | Turns on/off the trimming of folders after the report stage (this makes imports quicker as less is rechecked).
Groups | string | Not in use (intended to restrict who can send/receive what, based on groups).
HandlerSet | publisher | The handler set used by publisher. When installed, a new 'publisher' handler set is created in the `uSync8.config` file this contains a PublishedContent handler, which allows uSync to only send content that is published (the default handler works with saved content).
NetworkMode | true/false | Use the allowedServer settings to determine what can and can't be seen by the user.
baseUrl | string | Value used on main settings and server to override the url used when signing messages. If your server is behind a proxy you may need to use this value so messages are signed with the correct url.
